Okay, so let's do a deep dive
on EC2 spot instances.
So, we know that with a spot instance,
you can get a discount up to 90% compared to On-Demand,
so that's huge cost saving.
And so how does that work?
We define a max spot price
that we're willing to pay for that spot instance.
And then as long as the instance is having a spot price
that is less than the max price we're willing to pay,
then we keep that instance.
So, that max spot price,
I will show it to you in the next slide,
but the hourly spot will vary
based on offer and capacity,
and so it will go up and it will go down.
And if somehow the current spot price
goes over the max price you have defined,
then you have two options.
And for these two options,
you have a two minutes grace period.
So, that gives you a little bit of time to do these things.
And the options can be either you're stopping your instance,
that means that you shut down everything you are doing
then you stop your instance.
And so, if one day the spot price goes below your max price,
then you can restart your instance
and continue where you left it off
or if you don't need the state on your EC2 instance,
you can just choose to terminate your instance
and let it go.
And then that would assume
that anytime you would restart your work,
you can start with a fresh new EC2 instance.
So, two strategies based on the type of workload you have
but you have a two minutes grade period to do so.
The other strategy,
if you don't want your spot instance to be reclaimed by AWS,
is to use a spot block.
And the spot block is when you block a spot instance
for a specified timeframe.
And this can be between one to six hours,
and you get that block without any interruption,
at least on paper because in the documentation--
but it's really rare.
In rare situations, the instance may be reclaimed
but overall, when you consider a spot block thing
that the instance will not be reclaimed,
that's the whole purpose of the spot block.
So, when do we use spot instances?
They're for batch jobs, data analysis,
workloads are resilient to failures.
And as I said,
they're not great for critical jobs or databases.
Now let's have a look at the spot instance pricing.
So this is a graph that I obtained
directly from the AWS console.
And as we can see here, this gives us the price
for a m4 large instance over three months in the spot zone.
So, as you can see,
you have six lines for us-east-1a.
Sorry, the region.
And you have six availability zones.
So, six prices.
So, as you can see,
the spot price does vary based on the AZ you're considering.
And so as we can see,
over three months it has varied quite a bit.
For example, if you look at that yellow line,
it has varied between 0.4 to 0.45,
all the way down to almost 0.35 let's say, and so on.
And so, let's assume that we are defining
a user defined max price
to be this black horizontal bar/dotted line, okay?
And so, what we'd see is that if the yellow line
is above the dotted line,
then the current spot price
is going to be more than the max price we have defined.
And so, in this instance right here,
we're going to lose our spot instance,
so we have to terminate it or stop it
but if the price goes down,
so if the yellow line goes down our dotted line,
that means that we are willing to pay that price.
And so, we are gaining that spot instance in this meantime.
So, this is how we can optimize the cost
of our workload very easily.
And so as you can see,
the On-Demand price is $0.10 per hour.
So that's really, really cheap.
And then the spot instance price is even cheaper.
It's around $0.4 I would say.
So, it's a 60% saving in that instance
for the spot instance pricing.
So, lots of savings.
And obviously if you were to define
your user defined max price
to be something like $0.05 per hour,
then no spot instances will be reclaimed
because you're always willing to pay more
than the actual spot instance price.
So, no one can predict how the price goes over time
but as you can see, it can be rather stable,
it can fluctuate a little bit
but overall, it still provides you huge savings
compared to On-Demand, okay?
Okay, next.
How do you terminate a spot instance?
So, we have to first understand how a spot request works.
And so for this, let's consider a spot request.
So, with the spot request,
you are defining how many instances you want,
your maximum price you're going to pay,
the launch specification,
so the AMI and so on,
and when your request is valid from and until
but it can be infinite.
And then the request type.
And it's very important to understand
there's two types of requests.
You can do a one-time request for spot instances
or a persistent request for spot instances.
So, let's have a look at the difference.
So, if it's a one-time request,
as soon as your spot request is fulfilled,
your instances are going to be launched
and then your spot request will go away
because it was a one-time request type.
So in this case,
your spot request is going to go away and you're fine.
But if it's a persistent request type,
that means that we want this number of instances
to be valid as long as the spot request
is valid from to valid until.
And so, that means that if somehow your instances
do get stopped or interrupted based on the spot price,
then your spot request will go back into action.
And when things can be validated,
we'll restart spot instances for you.
So if somehow you stop a spot instance in persistent mode
and your spot request is still active,
your spot request automatically will be smart enough
to restart a launch and instance for you.
And this is something you can also see in this diagram
but I won't spend too much time on it.
So, what you understand out of it
is that if you want to cancel a spot request,
it needs to be in the open state, the active state,
or the disabled state.
That means that basically it's not failed,
it's not canceled, or it's not closed, okay?
And when you want to cancel a spot request,
so if you take the spot request on the left-hand side
and you cancel it, it's not going to terminate any instances
that you have launched from before.
So, it is still your responsibility
to terminate these instances
and not the responsibility of AWS.
So as such, if you want to terminate spot instances for good
and not have them relaunch,
you need to first cancel the spot request
and then you terminate the associated spot instances.
Because if you were to terminate the spot instances first,
remember it goes back into the spot request
and the spot request says,
"Okay, you wanted six instances
"but I can see you have zero right now.
"I'm going to launch six instances for you."
So again, the right order to cancel
and to terminate spot instances
is to first cancel the spot request
to make sure that no new instances will be launched by AWS
and then you terminate the associated spot instances.
And I'm spending a bit of time on this
because this is something that can come up in the exam.
Okay, next: spot fleets.
So, this is the ultimate way to save money.
So, spot fleets is going to be a way to define
for you to get a set of spot instances
and optionally On-Demand instances,
that's why it's called a fleet.
And the spot fleet will try its best
to meet the target capacity
with the price constraints you defined.
So, it will launch from possible launch pools.
So, it can have different instance types,
different OS, and availability zones.
And so, you're going to define multiple launch pools,
so multiple instance types, multiple everything.
And then the fleet will choose the best
and most appropriate launch pool for you.
And when your spot fleet either reaches your budget
or reaches the capacity you wanted,
then it will stop launching instances.
And so, you define a strategy to allocate spot instances
in your spot fleet, and that's something to remember.
The first one is lowest price,
and that's going to the most popular one
going into the exam,
which is that the spot fleet will launch instances
from the pool that has the lowest price
and that gives you a lot of cost optimization.
And this is a great option
if you have a very short workload.
You can also have a diversified way
to launch your spot instances,
in which case the launch in the spot instances
will be distributed across all the pools
that you have defined from before,
which is great for availability and long workloads
because if one pool goes away,
then your other pools are still active.
Then you have capacity optimized.
So, you have a pool with the optimal capacity
for the number of instances you want.
And then you have price capacity optimized,
which is first choosing the pool
with the highest capacity available
and then select within that
the one that has the lowest price,
which is the best choice for most workloads.
So, the idea is that spot fleets can be complicated
but what you have to remember is that using the spot fleet,
you're able to define multiple launch pools
and multiple instance types
until you're just interesting in raw power.
And then if you use the lowest price discounts
or the lowest price strategy for spot fleets,
then the spot fleets
will automatically request the spot instances
with the lowest price for us.
And so, spot fleets gives us an extra saving
based on spot instances because it's smart enough
to choose the right spot instance pool
to allow us to get the maximum amount of savings.
And this is the benefits of spot fleets.
And again, you need to understand the difference here
of doing a very simple spot instance request
where you know exactly the type of instance you want
and the AZ you want to using a spot fleet and saying,
"Okay, you can choose all these instance types
"and all these AZ,
"and what I need from you
"is to give me the lowest price, for example, okay?"
So, that hopefully is giving you a lot of insights
into how spot fleets and spot instances are different.
I hope you liked this lecture
and I will see you in the next lecture.